-: Welcome back.
Let's go back to our GitHub Repository now.
So we are in AWS
stacksimplify/aws-eks-kubernetes-masterclass
internal repository,
which is a profit repository of mine.
And whenever I do the course updates,
so I will add the new section here
and then update the sections in detail here,
all the documentation related to that.
And then when I am publishing,
once everything related to that section is completed.
So I will publish the videos on Udemy
and also ensure that, that (indistinct) section related,
get changes also will be added here.
So this is the public repository where you have the access
which is AWS EKS Kubernetes Masterclass.
And currently inside this you have only 08 ELB.
So there is nothing related to 08 EL, new 08 ELB.
But now once this entire section recording is completed.
So I will ensure that this respective section
related all the changes are also added here
and then you will get access to them.
So far, now the recording
will happen on this internal repository
and we'll move on to the section 0801,
Load Balancer Controller installer.
So this is the first thing we are going to do,
as part of this mega section.
And here, so as part of step 00 Introduction,
we already understood what is Load Balancer Controller
and then how it is going to have the objects
inside Kubernetes and then how it is going
to create the Application Load Balancer
and all those things.
So this is primarily on a high level if you see it.
We are going to create a IAM policy
and make a note of that policy ARN.
And then we are also going to create a IAM role
and associate this IAM policy to this I am role.
And also we'll create a Kubernetes service account
and bind this role,
and then service account together.
By annotating this service account with this role ARN.
That is what we have seen in the picture here.
So we'll create a IAM policy
and that is associated to the IAM role here,
and this IAM role related ARN,
will be annotated in the Kubernetes service account, here.
So let's come back here.
And in addition to that,
we are also going to install
the AWS Load Balancer Controller
using the (indistinct) CLI
and also understand about the new concept,
introduced inside this AWS Load Balancer Controller.
So is ingress class concept?
And we are going to understand that.
And also whatever the ingress controller,
we are going to install.
We are going to make that as the default one.
So we'll see all those things in detail
when we are implementing these steps, right.
So far, now we'll move on to the prerequisite steps here.
So we have three prerequisites
which we are going to implement now.
So the first prerequisite is,
ensure that you have the eksctl
and then kubectl command line utility installed.
So as part of the prerequisite section
of this course,
already they were installed
but we will crosscheck once, right?
So we'll say eksctl and version.
So as on today this is the latest version
but whenever you are doing it
it might be a different version too.
And also we'll see the kubectl
and we'll say version and hyphen hyphen shot, right?
So it'll provide both the client version
and also the server version.
So the client version I'm using is v1.22.4
and the server version is 1.21.5.
And if you see the note here,
you must use a kubectl version that is
within one minor version difference
of your Amazon EKS cluster control plane.
For example, if you're using the 1.20 kubectl client.
So you can use the Kubernetes cluster
of version 1.19, 1.20
and then 1.21.
So this means that as our client version is 1.22
our server version supported
here are 1.21, 1.22, and also 1.23.
So now let's come back here
and move to the next prerequisite.
Next prerequisite is create your EKS cluster
and worker nodes if not created.
So we already created the EKS cluster
as part of section 0102
and also as part of section 0701,
which is nothing but we have created as part
of this respective section a private node group.
So if you see in 01, right?
In section 0102 we have created the EKS cluster
and also we have created a,
and associated a (indistinct) or IDC provider.
And after that as part of section 0701,
we have created a EKS private node group.
So both things are completed now,
which means we should already have the EKS cluster
and EKS node groups in our private subnets.
But it is a additional crosscheck
whether those were present or not.
And if those were not present then you can go ahead
and then directly execute this command,
and this command, and this command.
These three commands, to create them immediately.
And as those were already created,
so now we'll go back to our EC2,
which is our AWS Management Console,
and verify that we have
the two private node instances
running in a node group
and we can go to EKS Elastic Kubernetes Service
and also verify the same things
here on a very high level, right?
So we'll go to EKS cluster
and eksdemo1 cluster is up and running,
whose Kubernetes version is 1.21 as on today.
And if you see here, so let's wait for it.
So two nodes are running there
and the current workloads you can see,
code DNS, AWS node and then kube-proxy.
And the configuration information
we can see here in detail.
So this is what we have
and then ready for us so that we can go ahead
and then directly install the AWS Load Balancer Controller.
So once the prerequisite two verification
of these things were completed.
So we'll go back here
and also verify the same things using eksctl commands.
So eksctl and you'll say, get cluster,
and you'll find that eksdemo1 cluster
is up and running.
See eksdemo1
and it is created using eksctl CLI.
And we can get the node groups
for this respective eksdemo1 cluster.
So let me copy this command
and run it here and see the node group
associated with this respective eksdemo1 cluster.
So you can see eksdemo1 ng private1 is the node group name.
So which is already created
and it has currently two nodes running.
And verify if any IAM service accounts
present inside this EKS cluster.
So let me see that too.
So eksctl get IAM service account
and provide that cluster name.
So it'll say that there are no IAM service accounts
found inside this EKS cluster.
Okay, fine.
And another important thing here is
if you have not configured your kubectl, kube config.
So whenever the EKS cluster is created
it'll automatically get created,
the kube config which is located in,
dollar, home, slash, dot, kube, slash, config.
So this will have the information.
so I'll say, cat.
And this will have the information
about connecting to our EKS cluster using kubectl.
All the authentication information.
And if, if by any chance
whenever you run the command kubectl get nodes
and you are not getting any output
from this local desktop CLI,
you are not able to connect
to your remote EKS cluster instances in AWS Cloud
and you are not getting this type of output.
So then you can go ahead
and then run this command,
AWS EKS and in which region your cluster
is created and you can say, update kube config
and provide the name of your cluster here.
So my name of my cluster is eksdemo1
which you can get using eksctl get cluster
to get the cluster name,
and then update your cluster name here,
and run this command.
So I will, what I'm going to do is,
so I will empty my kube config here, right?
So I'll say dot kube and config file.
In dot kube folder, I have the config file
and that I have cleared it,
and if I say, cat, for that file, nothing is there.
So now I will run this command,
so that again it will reconfigure
or it has added the content there
and you can see all this is added.
So before that, what I'm going to do is,
so first I'll clear that, right?
And then run the kubectl get nodes
and then see what happens, right?
So let me run the get nodes
and it says that connection to the server was refused
because there is no configuration information
for kubectl to connect to yours AWS EKS cluster.
So it has no information about to which EKS cluster
this kubectl command need to connect
and get the nodes information.
So we'll run this command, which is AWS EKS,
region; US East 1, update; kube config,
name; eksdemo1.
And now we'll run that kubectl get nodes
and we'll get the information
because our local config file
has the information, connectivity information
to our remote EKS cluster running on our AWS Cloud.
So this is good.
And these are the prerequisites we need to crosscheck
which is you have your EKS cluster up and running,
and you are able to connect it
to using kubectl get nodes,
so that your kubectl CLI is configured perfectly with that.
So that's what we are supposed to
verify all these prerequisites.
So in our next lecture we are going to
move on with creating the IAM policy.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.